# Predicting-alpha-signal-using-microblogging-data
This is my final project at INSOFE(International School of Engineering), where you have to solve a business problem and the problem given is to predict stock market alpha signal using stcoktwit tweets(similary to twitter, for investors) and other given predictors.

### **What is an alpha signal..?**
Alpha is a metric used to gauge the outperformance of a trading portfolio over a normalised portfolio. It is one of modern portfolio theory’s statistical measures used to quantify the returns made from an investment against a benchmark. The better the alpha value, the better an investment performed against market indices.
A single integer value represents the metric. A positive alpha value indicates that the fund performed better than benchmarks, while a negative value denotes the opposite. So an alpha of 1 tells you that investment is doing 1% better than the benchmark value.

### **Why is alpha so important?**
In point of view of hedge fund there are two important reasons why alpha signal is important
1. As they get better alpha signal people who have invested in the hedge fund make profit 
2. More importantly if the investors in hedge funds make profit,hedge funds get 20% of profits...and to make more profit they have to get good returns for their investors and a better way to do that is predicting alpha signal and investing based on it.

### **What is the problem??**
Predicting alpha signal requires several factors which are to be collected from large number of data vendors at very high price.
We alredy have the alpha signals predicted by near perfect algorithm using all the factors available,and task at hand is to replicate the alpha signals generated by the algorithm just by using seven factors and microblogging data collected from stocktwits.
